# VAR-in-Professional-Soccer
Repository for my Syracuse Sport Analytics Senior Thesis about the use of VAR in soccer.

### Abstract
After the recent introduction of Video Assistant Referees (VAR) into professional soccer, newfound controversies have arisen regarding the nature of calls made during a given game. Referees and fans alike are allowed to use the instant replay technology to make their own judgements about on field decisions. Many have taken to social media to voice their displeasure about the new technology. This raises the question: "Is it possible to determine whether or not a VAR call is ‘correct’ by using fan sentiment?" Through the use of ESPN commentary and Twitter data, this question can start to be answered. Through my research I hope to analyze VAR decisions in professional soccer to help improve its use in leagues and competitions. Because the use of VAR is quite subjective, I will show that analysis of fan sentiment can be used as a proxy to determine which calls may have been incorrect. There is a lot of work that can be done to improve VAR to make the refereeing of the game as fair and accurate as possible. A better use of this technology can improve television ratings in professional leagues and improve overall fan interest.

### Files
* Dylan Blechner - VAR Analysis in Professional Soccer.pdf - Full PDF version of my Senior Thesis completed as a part of the Sport Analytics program at Syracuse University.
* Dylan Blechner - AEF Sentiment and Video Assistant Referees in Premier League Soccer.pdf - An abridged version of my Senior Thesis focusing only on the sentiment analysis used to analyze tweets converning VAR. This paper was submitted to the Academy of Economics and Finance (AEF) Conference in 2020 (https://economics-finance.org/AEF/) and was selected as one of the two winners of the undergraduate paper competition.
* Dylan Blechner - AEF Sentiment and Video Assistant Referees in Premier League Soccer Presentation.pptx - The corresponding PowerPoint Presentation used at the AEF Conference.
* CMSAC_Poster_Dylan_Blechner.pdf - Poster presented at the 2020 Carnegie Mellon Sports Analytics Conference (http://www.stat.cmu.edu/cmsac/conference/2020/). A similar poster was also submitted to the Falk College Student Research Celebration where it was selected as one of the four winners.
